on November 21st 1999 Tyler was involved
in a horrific automobile crash Tyler
made a decision to get in a car that did
not have enough seat belts for all five
teenage passengers
a few minutes later the driver lost
control of the vehicle and struck a
telephone pole as they drove over 70
miles per hour Tyler would take the
brunt of the impact
ten years later it's an impact that he
still feels every minute of every day 21
surgeries later it's an impact that has
changed his life forever this is tyler
story
I got in the backseat of my friends car
there wasn't enough seat belts I just
piled in the last one in
he had just had his driver's license for
two weeks he was excited to try and
catch some air on these hills
we were all nervous none of us wanted to
say anything because he was older
we started coming back down doing about
70 miles an hour kind of weaving it out
of both lanes because we were the only
car on the road right about here we were
on this side of the road we saw our car
coming up so we shot back over here
hydroplaned a little bit got off the
side of the road over here right where
this red and white little gate is
started doing 360s about 75 miles an
hour and sand into that telephone pole
up there by the white sign so this is
exactly how I hit right here so my hip
and my pelvis took the entire pole those
pieces those just those disintegrated
into nothing so the pieces flew up and
cut open every organ you could think of
my bladder my stomach my kidney wasn't
even on anything it was just dangling
somewhere an artery liver everything you
could think of my intestines everything
inside of me was shredded because of
those pieces just flew up and cut up and
cut him open my hips my my femurs
everything in me was just busted trying
to move I the only things that weren't
broken were my arms so I was just you
know I couldn't even I didn't know I was
in in my head my head hit the pole and
then hit everything else in the car so
when the ambulance got there I was in a
coma on the scene of the crash there was
they didn't even have to really sedate
me I was in the hospital for four months
and the only reason I was because my
brain injury didn't let my body heal
correctly I suffered a severe brain
injury actually I I lost my memory which
is why I stutter all the time which is
why I can't remember anything I I had to
relearn everything you could think of
how to talk how to walk how to feed
myself I got a tube in my tattoo bin my
belly for a year and a half I wore
diapers for the first year of high
school two years of high school I had to
relearn everything a baby has to learn
at the age of 15 just
all over from scratch who my family was
who I was what their voices sounded like
what my favorite color was again which
changes every day by the way everything
a person has to know I had to relearn it
was horrible it was horrible still to
this day I have to relearn everything
basically not not my sentences not how
to drive not you know how to write but
you know who I am I sometimes forget
what I look like I have to look in the
mirror all the time and I could go back
and change everything I would I would in
a second but the reality of life as you
can't so I have to live a life full of
compensation because of this one second
this one bad second after years of
surgeries and rehabilitation Tyler was
asked by one of his trauma nurses to
share his story with a high risk driving
class it was here that Tyler discovered
his passion for speaking for sharing his
story he didn't want anyone to
experience what he was going through I
love talking to the kids and adults too
but teenagers especially I love talking
to them because they listen to me I'm
not I'm not another police officer
coming in to tell him to tell him a
story i'm not a driving instructor just
another day in class I am a unique
individual who has lived a life that you
hear books about you hear stories about
you here I have lived that painful life
and I and I came through it I'm still
going through it it's something I'll
live with and die with but you know I
come through a story zone that can
really hit these teenagers where it
where it counts
so one thing I always asked teenagers is
you guys you know you all think you're
really cool don't you yeah of course
yeah see all right have you guys all
been in this situation in a car in which
you've been scared and you haven't said
anything yeah most teenagers have that
car accident did you guys saw was a
moment like that in my life where I
didn't say anything so I advise every
teenager to speak up because you guys
all have a voice it doesn't matter how
cool the driver is you know definitely
always asked either get out or slow down
even if the driver is the most popular
kid in school it doesn't matter because
it could mean life or death for any of
you but when Tyler comes to speak they
ignore break time they sit there for two
hours and never want to move in it and
not only do they listen to him once but
periodically they'll talk to their
parents about their experience listening
the Tyler's story and they bring their
parents back in future classes to listen
to them again I think what kids come
away most of all listening to Tyler is
instead of listening to an adult tell
the story you get someone closer to
their own age
telling the exact same story it's
amazing on how they receive it and I
think Tyler's making a extreme impact on
these teenagers about reducing accidents
and I believe he's saving lives with the
way his presentation is I can say today
that on my birthday that I learned
something like I turned 16 with the
knowledge of knowing like when i get my
license or whatnot that i have to be
more careful i have to note that it's
not just me in the car it's everyone
else in the car and i have to note that
it's life or death basically usually the
classes that i meant it's very talkative
and you can like our instructor always
has to wake people to be quiet but with
tyler it was very it was like it's quiet
where you could hear a pin drop it was
just everyone was focused and you could
tell people really engaged on what he
was saying today I thought Tyler was the
most inspirational person I've ever met
and went through that accident and this
year and smiling to tell us a story and
just to spread the word about being safe
in a car if you ever feel that you're in
safe just to speak out because anything
can happen and maybe hot maybe you can
live and maybe you won't be as lucky as
him if someone were to come to me in my
driving school when I was that age and
tell me about that you know who knows if
I would have gotten in the car who knows
if I wouldn't have said you know slow
down who knows who knows what I would
have done I'm just I'm just bringing
something to the table that might not
have been brought and I think that kids
teenagers and adults to need to hear it
life is a life is very fragile and could
be taken away in a second
you